1.Where I can use Linux?
  We can use Linux as Server OS or as standalone OS on our PC.

2.What is a server OS?
  A server operating system, also called a server OS specifically designed to run on servers, which are specialized computers that operate within a clint/server architecture to serve the requests of client computers on the network.

3.We can use Linux for?
  we can use Linux operating system for 
  a)Personal Work
  b)Web Server
  c)Software Development Workstation
  d)Workgroup Server
  e)In Data Center for various server activities such as FTP, Telnet, SSH, Web, Mail, Proxy, Proxy Cache Appliance etc..

4.What Kernel Is?
  Kernel is the heart of Linux OS.
  It manages resources of Linux OS. Resources means facilities available in Linux. For eg: Facility to store data, print data on printer, memory, file management etc .
  Kernel acts as an intermediary between the computer hardware and various programs/application/shell.

5.What is Linux shell?
  Shell is a user program for user interaction. Shell is a command line interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input device(keyboard) or from a file.
  Sjell is not part of system kernel, but uses the system kernel to execute programs, create files etc.

6.Types of Shell available?
  a)BASH(Bourne-Again SHell)
  b)CSH(C SHell)
  c)KSH(Korn SHell)
  d)TCSH

7.How to find our current shell type?
  Open the terminal and type following command $echo$SHELL

8.how to find all available shells in our system?
  Open terminal and type following command $cat/etc/shells

9.How to use Shell?
  To use shell simply open terminal and type commands.

10.What is Shell Script?
  Shell Script is series of commands written in plain text file. Shell script is just like batch file in MS-DOS but have more power than the MS-DOS batch file.

Some common linux commands:
  
11.vi # It is a editor used to create a file and edit.

12.touch # Creates a new file # we can also create multiple files using it.
 
13.man # Shows the help manual.
 
14.ls -a # Lists all files including hidden files.

15.ls -l # Long listing.

16.nano # It is an editor.

17.cd ~ # Tilt command, this brings us to the original path.

18.cd /bin # After reverting to original path this /bin path will give you list of all the linux commands.

19.history # Gives recently used commands.

20.history n(number from where you want to see the commanda list) 
	eg: history 0 shows all the commanda used from the begining.
